hurricanes wildfires earthquakes
blizzards there's something in your area
that can happen very very quickly that
you're going to need to be prepared for
as you probably know and have seen with
your own eyes from the last few major
natural disasters help doesn't come
immediately it takes time how long it
takes depends on your state and how good
your state agencies are and your local
agencies are because the federal
agencies are pretty much worthless now
that that's excluding DoD's efforts
everybody else they'll get here
eventually but you need to have yourself
covered for a few days depending on the
type of disaster because they're they're
not gonna be here right away now here we
are a week into it I've still yet to see
FEMA I saw one Red Cross truck the only
federal agency that I have actually seen
was Border Patrol and they were getting
out they were leaving we are not the
sons of the pioneers and the daughters
Rosie the Riveter anymore because we're
not gonna fix the problem ourselves
we're gonna wait for somebody else to do
it wait for government big daddy
government pioneers right so what we'd
like to cast ourselves as we're
Americans the sons of the pioneers are
we anymore or if we had it so good for
so long that we've forgotten what that
is we become afraid of everything
everything if government can help
if government could really solve the
problems I wouldn't be running supplies
in for 30 or 40 miles away you can't
count on the government response you
can't in fact some of the things that
your government agencies may do will
make it worse for you
putting together a a kit a bag for
emergencies is something that every
family should do it doesn't matter if
you're a soccer mom or you're an X
Ranger you need to stay up-to-date need
to have your stuff together and this is
for everybody this isn't for survivalism
for Preppers this is for everybody it
doesn't take long it's not it's not a
big process we're not talking about
building a bunker and preparing for
doomsday we're just talking about enough
to survive a week or two until things
normalize okay so the first thing water
most important thing okay I would say
two gallons of water per person per day
however long you expect to be without
help and I know people are saying no
well you don't really need that much you
can survive on a lot less you can you
can survive on a lot less than that
however you're gonna want to cook your
you may be able to flush your toilet if
you dump water into it you may need to
clean a wound you may want to wash your
hands
you're gonna need water get gallon jugs
or if you have you know like a culligan
thing at your house get some extra
5-gallon things keep it on hand people
think that you know I've got a case of
Dasani at the house that's enough it's
not it's not even close to enough you're
gonna burn through that so fast make
sure you have water aside from that you
can also get tablets to purify water you
can get filters which are really cool
like the LifeStraw or the Sawyer food
now when you think emergency and food
you think MREs Mills ready to use by the
army do you need those no of course not
get canned goods get rice get things
that last a really long time that are
things you wouldn't normally eat and
that they have a long shelf life because
then you can put them in your pantry and
they'll stay there because they're not
really you're not gonna be like do I
really want to eat that no it's just
gonna hang out
that way you have a backup food supply
and again you're not looking for the
tastiest thing in the world you're just
looking for something that will keep you
alive and that is easy to cook and
because you're doing that you also need
a can opener
a first-aid kit a good one okay not the
blue box you pick up at Walmart that
says 153 pieces and 148 of them are
different size band-aids if they can be
fixed with a band-aid it probably would
have fixed itself on its own then you
also need your meds if you are on meds
of any kind that you had to take
regularly you need to supply those in
this bag because pharmacies aren't going
to be open and then obviously if you
have pets you need food for them their
meds if they need any water for them as
well fire and fire includes a flashlight
I need to know how to build a fire you
need lighters you need fire strikers
that type of thing matches waterproof
matches would be great
then you need shelter you need to assume
that the structure you're in is going to
be damaged tarps you know if you don't
wanna go ahead and spend a bunch of
money on a tent tarps or those little
mylar the silver blankets they're not
great but they work a knife a multi-tool
like a Leatherman or something like that
and you can even get a cheap one it's
got a knife on it but it also has pliers
and a can opener you know you're gonna
need that it has all of those other
things a Swiss Army knife
the last thing is a battery-operated
am/fm weather would be great
Radio the Internet's gonna be down
you're not going to get reliable news
except through the radio when relief
does come you're gonna find out about
the pickup points to get supplies via
the radio or from somebody else who has
a radio go ahead and get your own make
sure you have plenty of batteries for
all of this stuff people say I have all
this stuff in my house that's great but
after the hurricane or the earthquake or
whatever are you gonna be able to find
it
keep it all together beyond that you
need an evacuation plan you need to know
where you're gonna go and then you need
a backup from that evacuation plan in
addition to all of this stuff anybody
that's gonna use it anybody that's part
of the plan needs to know what the plan
is you need to know where you're gonna
meet up in a secondary location in case
you can't meet up the first one then you
need to have the evac location the place
you're gonna go to if you can't shelter
in place and then a second one and
everybody needs to know about this
if you have this stuff you're able to
help other people because you're already
taken care of and in a situation like
this it's just your community this is
putting on this is being on an airplane
and putting your mask on before you put
the person next to you before you help
them put their mask on just take care of
this stuff and you're going to be able
to help people there are people who will
come to help but the more self-reliant
you are the less stress you're putting
on them because they can focus on those
people who could not help themselves
we're in a small town and my
two-year-old spots a firetruck sitting
out in front of the fire station and he
loves them I mean he'd already crawl out
the window said Oh rescue team then he
notices that the fire station is damaged
he's like oh no rescue teams hurt who's
gonna help my four year old doesn't miss
a beat us and that's why I take
that is why I take them can't tell a kid
to be a good person gotta show four year
old understands that at some point and
at some times it's just us
there is no big daddy government coming
to help you
here's the thing guys it's up to you it
is up to you if not you who who's gonna
solve the problems if it's not you you
personally not your representative you
you got a problem in your community fix
it do it yourself do not wait for a
leader don't wait for some Savior to
arrive don't be afraid put out the flame
of your foot get involved you want to
make America great it isn't gonna happen
in DC it's gonna happen at the local
level it's not a matter of somebody else
is gonna help it that may not happen if
not you to make sure that somebody else
is helping before you just walk on by
there are people still out there like
that
this little supply depot I've been going
to it's at a place called Project Hope
and corporated now under normal
circumstances these guys work with vets
and they use horses kind of cool to kind
of provide a cathartic experience
interesting little concept and they do
good work accordingly everybody that
I've talked to that has ever had
anything to do with them they've turned
their entire facility into a supply
depot to help people and need to think
about that
suppliers coming in to a non-government
location now in government people get
into where it needs to go
now for those who don't think that this
is something their kids need to learn
what are the side effects of learning
survival skills you learn to critically
think problem-solve think on your feet
improvisation self-reliance these are
the side effects it's worth doing how do
you engage the youth in learning
survival skills we're going to start off
with the don'ts and there's just one
there's just one that I see commonly
that people do don't try to toughen up
your kid don't just don't teach them the
skills make it fun if they have to
suffer they just have to suffer and in a
survival sit you don't have to practice
how to suffer so what's the first thing
you should do get a copy of the US Army
survival manual and read it you can buy
it at any local bookstore if you just
want to download it you can get it for
free at archive.org I would suggest
getting a hard copy and keeping it just
just in case you want to make it fun
your kids sit around and plays video
games all day don't yell at him to get
off and go outside what you planned fall
out you wanna learn how to do that for
real
play with their interests rather than
just trying to hand them a new one just
find some way to relate it that's all
you have to do and then it makes it a
little bit interesting and then it's a
little less of a problem getting them
involved and then from there you've read
the book so come up with hip-pocket
classes little activities that can be
done at the drop of a hat organize them
ahead of time little things that you can
do to teach them little bits and pieces
of it at a time so it's not a classroom
setting
it's them doing something with with you
a good example is you're out you're away
from your home right now where can you
find food water fire shelter a knife and
a first-aid kit there are little
chemistry sets stem sets where you
actually learn to build something you
know you can you build a battery or you
start a fire with a chemical reaction or
whatever those little things they're
cheap they're like five bucks get them
do that one use that to teach something
else along the way just make it fun and
for God's sakes do not try to toughen up
your kid they don't need to be tough
physically they need to be tough
mentally and they'll figure that out
along the way
when people start to learn survival
skills they start to look at the world
in a very very different way they see
the impossible as possible they see what
things could be if you looked at them in
the right way
and they learn what's really important
in life
supplies are pretty much everywhere you
just have to know where to look and how
to think about after Michael there was a
group of people that were sheltering in
a restaurant and they needed medical
supplies nothing major but they had an
injury it never occurred to them that
there was a first-aid kit in the kitchen
because they were up in the front of the
house there was a first-aid kit there
was what they needed 15 feet away but
we're so used to that consumer life that
if we didn't buy it it doesn't exist
type of thing that they never thought
about it prior to Michael I watched two
people argue over water in a store and
they were between a display of Gatorade
and a cooler full of Milo sweet tea if
you were just looking for something
cheap to flush your toilet the sweet tea
would have worked if you were looking
for something potable water the Gatorade
would have worked but people get in that
mindset of I have to get water when you
have to get something wet beyond that it
teaches you to improvise and that's one
of the most important skills in life in
my opinion it's one of those things let
you see what things could be rather than
what they are and when you do that you
start to see everything around you this
is a battery if you can't tell as
components rather than some finished
consumer product you learn to improvise
and when you do that you'll learn to see
the world in a different way because
things can be something else I think
it's really important for the youth of
today to learn survival skills for that
reason
because I think with everything going on
in the world today it might be really
important for them to understand that
the impossible is possible and that the
way things are isn't what they have to
be that they can't change it that they
can use the tools around them to make
something else anyway it's just a
thought
y'all have a good night